Some of these other operators,
they are similar to math class.
They tell us how things compare.
So we also have operators for like
greater than, less than, greater than, or
equal to, less than or equal to, and they
involve our friends the angle brackets.
So, the right angle
bracket is greater than
the left angle bracket is less than and
then if we put an equal
sign after those are the or
equal to versions, and
we can kind of guess what type of value?
If I asked JavaScript,
is 5 greater than 4?
What kind of value do you think I'm gonna
get back as an answer to this question?
>> Boolean.
>> A boolean, true or false, right?
True or false, 5 is greater than 4?
We can confirm that.
Good, we can confirm that.
So 5 is greater than 4, true, as expected.
5 is less than 4, false, as expected.
So again, we have a lot of the time
we're asking JavaScript these yes or
no questions, these true false questions.
There are also a couple of
operators in JavaScript that
tell us whether two things are equal.
And confusingly,
JavaScript has two versions of these.
These are not technical terms, but well,
they were called the strict version
of the equality operators, and
what I like to think of is
the loosey goosey version or,
[LAUGH] some might call the sloppy
version of these operators.
And confusingly,
these two versions of each operator,
return different things
that sometimes lead to
those unexpected JavaScript sort
of like what's happening here?
So let's talk about these a little bit.
So we have two operators for
something equals something else, which
is asking JavaScript, does this value
equal this other value, are they the same?
And if I use the strict version,
I'm going to ask that with
three equal signs in a row.
That is a single operator in JavaScript,
And if I want to know just like
a vague loosey goosey answer to it,
I can use just two equal signs.
And likewise, we have a does
not equal version for each one.
So the strict version is exclamation
point which often in programming
means like not or opposite,
and then equal equal, and
then not equal is
the loosey goosey version.
So, what am I talking about the strict
versus the loosey goosey version,
I am gonna ask you all to poke around and
figure out.
For each of these examples,
does the strict triple equals operator,
do the same thing as the loosey
goosey double equals operator?
And if they are different,
how are they different?
So let's just take a really brief moment
to ask JavaScript some questions like,
is the number one equal to the number 1
is the string one equal to the string 1,
and is the number 1 equal to the string 1.
So take a moment,
guess at the answer first, and
then ask JavaScript in
the console what it thinks.
All right, so these operators,
these equal equal equal or
equal equal strict loosey-goosey,
what do they do?
Do they do things?
Let's find out.
Okay.
So, what did we find this first row?
Number 1, triple equal number 1 versus
number 1, double equal number 1.
Do they do the same thing or
different things?
>> Same.
>> Same thing.
And in both cases we get the answer true.
Nice.
How about the second line?
Sring 1 equals string 1?.
Same or different?
>> Same.
>> Same and the answer, true.
Cool.
All right.
We're just checking our bases here,
making sure we're not losing it.
What about the last line?
So number one, triple equals number one.
Let's try it out.
Sorry, string 1, number 1,
triple equals string 1, false.
Is that what you expect?
I'm seeing nods, because we said these
are two different things, right?
One is a number one is a string.
They're not the same.
They have something in common I guess
maybe, but they're totally different
things, one is like talking about a number
and the other is the actual number.
What about the loosey-goosey
double equals?
So number one loosey-goosey
equals letter or string one.
This returns true,
was anyone surprised by this?
No, maybe we've just come to expect the
JavaScript says weird things sometimes.
Does anybody know what is happening here,
or can anybody guess?
Why the loosey goosey operator says that
these two are the same thing whereas
the strict operator says that they're not?
Any guesses what JavaScript
is thinking here if we can
anthropomorphize our programming
languages, which why not.
>> Triple equals, probably tries to
determine what type of data format
it is versus double equals just
interprets the value itself.
>> Interesting, okay, so this has
something to do definitely with the type
of values that we're dealing with, right?
And the triple equal is,
seems to care about the type of value.
And so, it's saying that the number
1 is not the same thing as
the string 1 because those
are different types of values exactly.
The loosey goosey operator,
the double equals,
it is doing an extra step here.
What it's saying inside of JavaScript
if we again can anthropomorphize and
pretend JavaScript is a person.
It's saying, all right, these two
things they look kinda different but
let me try to pretend that
they are the same value.
What it's doing is
what's called casting or
converting the values to be the same type
so that it can compare them more closely.
And it's saying, okay,
if we convert these to the same value,
the same type of value,
then they would be the same thing.
So for
example like if I do one double equals 2,
that's false because these
even if I convert them
both to a string they're
not the same string.
But the thing is that usually when
we're asking JavaScript whether two
things are the same,
we care about the type of things they are.
We usually don't want to find out that
the things that we thought were the same
thing are actually of two
totally different types.
JavaScript just managed to
convert them to the same type so
that they could look like they were equal.
So in almost every situation,
there's always an asterisk,
there's always an almost, but
in almost every situation,
you're gonna wanna use
the strict operators.
So that triple equal and the exclamation
equal equal instead of the loosey goosey,
two equals versions because almost always,
the type of your data matters.
So I bring up these loosey goosey versions
just to tell you that they're out
there and to tell you be careful that
you're not using the loosey goosey when
you think you're using the strict one.
Because you're gonna get different values,
and
you're gonna maybe not have a good time if
you're thinking that you're doing strict
comparison when really you're doing
a sloppy loosey goosey comparison, okay?
So this is just a gotcha as it were.
Okay, as we have said,
JavaScript has lots of operators,
and there is a bunch of
other stuff out there.
Anybody have any other guesses about
other operators that are out there?
We saw one earlier the percentage and
the double asterisks for
modulo and or remainder and
exponentiation.
>> Is there a coalesce type
function in JavaScript?
>> Interesting.
A coalesce function.
Can you tell us a little
bit about coalesce?
>> In SQL, it evaluates
multiple values to determine if
any of them have a something
that's assigned to it.
Once it finds one, that's a sign that has
something assigned to it, it says, okay,
I'll take the very first one.
>> Right, okay.
>> So useful sometimes with SQL.
>> Sure, yeah, so in C so maybe there's
another programming language we know
like SQL or some other language that has
a certain operator, like coalesce, and
we want to find out does
JavaScript have that thing?
Where we can do, go to our friend MDN
type in coalesce and see what we get.
Well, there's not really
the answer to the question,
is not really something equivalent
to coalesce in SQL, but
there is something that's called
a nullish coalescing operator.
What is that?
I don't know.
Let's find out.
Let's play around.
So we have a bunch of like logical
operators that like this one
is one of them.
There's things like logical OR and
AND, and we're gonna talk more about
those when we talk about conditionals and
logical values and stuff like that.
But the point is that you can find
them all on our good friend MDN.
And if you're ever wondering, my favorite
programming language has an operator like
this, does my new favorite programming
language JavaScript have that operator?
You can look it up in the operators page,
as we saw before.
Cool.
So once again, the takeaway from this
whole course is MDN, [LAUGH] just kidding.
>> Someone was saying AND
and OR plus, plus.
>> AND and OR, plus, plus, yes.
Okay, so
these are also operators that we can.
If we go to I don't actually know
if this will work if we yes, okay,
we can even type it into the search box.
So AND AND is another logical operator for
logical AND.
Again, we'll come back to it when
we talk about conditionals, and
truth values and things like that and
the other one was plus plus.
That is, also, an operator that
is called the increment operator,
which kind of adds one to like a counter,
or something like that.
So, again great examples of other
operators that are part of the huge
constellation of different operators
we can have in JavaScript,
that are built into the language.
And that we can always look up the details
of and like how does it work again and
what's an example and all of that
good stuff is in our friend MDN.
So anytime you're curious about
a particular operator that you see in
somebody else's code maybe, or you know
the name of the thing you wanna do, but
you can't remember what the symbol is
MDN is your friend, MDN is your friend.
Yeah, I'm gonna be saying that a lot.